## Background {.page_break_before}

	The Ora Ignimbrite (277 +/- 2 Ma) is a welded crystal-rich supereruption-sized deposit located in the southern Alps of northern Italy.  Ora represents the final eruptive pulse of the Athesian Volcanic Group (285-274 Ma), a slab-rollback ignimbrite flareup resulting from the oblique subduction of the Paleo-Tethys ocean under Eurasia in the Permian (Marocchi et al., 2008; Best et al., 2016).  This volcanic terrain escaped alpine deformation and has been scoured by glacial incision, exposing intracaldera deposits reaching thicknesses of 1350 m.  Outflow deposits are less than 250 m thick and are stratigraphically similar to the late-erupted deposits (Willcock et al., 2013) (Fig 1).  The Ora eruption is interpreted to have had an early caldera collapse, based on the large amount of intracaldera fill and the fact that the outflow correlates with the late-erupted units of the intracaldera deposit (Willcock et al., 2013).  Furthermore, Willcock et al. (2015) identify two discrete collapse calderas (northern and southern) and variations in bulk rock compositions and biotite content between the two calderas suggest that multiple magma chambers were evacuated to form the Ora Ignimbrite.

 
 
 

Figure 1: A map of the field location.  The four fiamme types identified in Chiaro et al. (in prep) are listed with their corresponding vitrophyre locations.  

Table 1: Samples collected in Fall 2017 and Spring 2019.  Sample locations are shown in Fig. 1.  The number of bulk tuff samples and fiamme are listed.

Samples:	Location:	Type:	Bulk Tuff:	Fiamme:
ORA 2	Outflow Vitrophyre	Vitrophyre	1	x
ORA 3	Northern Intracaldera	Bulk Tuff	1	1
ORA 4	Odorizzi Quarry	Bulk Tuff	2	50
ORA 5	Intracaldera Vitrophyre	Vitrophyre	1	x
ORA 6	Northern Intracaldera	Rhyolite Dike	4	
ORA 7	Base of Northern Intracaldera	Bulk Tuff	1	
ORA 8	Northern Intracaldera	Bulk Tuff	1	
ORA 9	NW Outflow 1	Biotite-Rich Fiamme		x
ORA 10	NW Outflow 2	Medium-Grained Fiamme		x
ORA 11	Castel Firmiano	Ash/Ignimbrite Contact	3	
ORA 12	Rhyolite Dike	Granite Dike	4	
ORA 13	Rhyolite Dike	Potential Fiamma		1
ORA 14	Caldera Rim Cutting Dike	Porphyritic Coarse-Grained Dike	1	
ORA 15	Caldera Rim Cutting Dike	Medium-Grained Dike 	1	
ORA 16	Cava Flor Quarry	Fine and Coarse-Grained Fiamme		4
ORA 17	NW Outflow 3	Fine to Medium-Grained Fiamme		x
ORA 18	Magdalena Hike	Pseudotachylite	1	
ORA 19	Magdalena Hike @ Sculpture	Fine and Coarse-Grained Dikes	1	

Recent work has attempted to understand the pre-eruptive architecture of the Ora system by using textural, mineralogical, and geochemical features of fiamme (Chiaro et al., in prep).  Fiamme were collected from two vitrophyre horizons: an early-erupted intracaldera deposit and a late-erupted outflow deposit in order to find well-preserved glass.  These fiamme were initially grouped into four types based on crystal content and biotite content (Table 2).  Glass major elements further verified the categorization scheme.

Table 2: The four fiamme types and their location, crystal content, maximum phenocryst size, and mafic content (Chiaro et al., in prep). 

 

	Glass trace elements illuminate at least three distinct populations for both the VCCR and MG fiamme, suggesting the presence of multiple magma batches within the Ora system (Fig. 2). 


 

Figure 2: Rare earth element diagrams and a plot of strontium vs. barium illustrate the six discrete glass populations in the Medium-Grained (MG) and Very Coarse-Grained Crystal-Rich (VCCR) fiamme.



Pre-eruptive storage pressures were calculated using the Rhyolite-MELTS (Q2F) geobarometer.  

Different fiamme types were stored at different pressures in the crust, with a progression of erupting shallower to deeper magmas through time.

Silica content vs. pressure shows variable storage depths for the fine-grained crystal-poor melt, suggesting that there were multiple, small melt bodies located at different depths throughout the magma chamber.

 
Figure 3: (from Chiaro et al., in prep)

This work suggests that there were two potential scenarios for the pre-eruptive architecture of the Ora magma system.  There were either two distinct mush zones that were at slightly different depths within the crust, or a continuous crystal mush with multiple heterogeneous zones located throughout.  
